# 01. Convert Notebooks to *.py and *.md

> This tool allows conversion from an ipynb notebook into .py or .md files.

## Convert all Notebooks in a Folder to Python

One core feature of this library is to convert all notebook files located beneath the `nb_root` folder into python files relative to the `project_root`.
For this conversion the notebook is scanned for:

1. A code cell which contians `#default_exp python_package.for.this.notebook`
2. All code cells where the first line is `#export`

Then using the cells marked with `#export` a python file in `python_package/for/this/notebook.py` is created.
The generated python file should not be modified and the cell and AUTOGENERATED comments must not be deleted.

**def notebook2py(project_root: str, nb_root: str) -> None:**

Convert all notebooks in the folder.

* project_root: The root directory of the project. The default exp path is relative to this folder.
* nb_root: The root directory of all the notebooks. Only notebooks in this or any subfolder will be considered.


Example:
```python
notebook2py("..", ".")
```
Output:
```
Converting to py: nb_convert.ipynb

```

## Convert all Notebooks in a Folder to Markdown

One core feature of this library is to convert all notebook files located beneath the `nb_root` folder into python files relative to the `project_root`.
For this conversion the notebook is scanned for:

1. A code cell which contians `#default_exp python_package.for.this.notebook` is searched to find the output file name.
2. All cells are scanned and based on their type an action is taken:
    * `#hide` -> Cell is ignored.
    * markdown -> The cell is 1 to 1 copied into the doc.
    * `#export` code cell -> The cell is scanned for any public function and class. They are added with their docstring to the markdown.
    * other code cell -> The cell is treated as an example and the code and the output are inserted into the markdown.


**def notebook2md(project_root: str, nb_root: str) -> None:**

Convert all notebooks in the folder.

* project_root: The root directory of the project. The default exp path is relative to this folder.
* nb_root: The root directory of all the notebooks. Only notebooks in this or any subfolder will be considered.


Example:
```python
notebook2md("..", ".")
```
Output:
```
Converting to md: nb_convert.ipynb

```

